docs/WEB3_AGENT_INTEGRATION.md, before:

# Web3 AI Agent - Integration Guide

## Overview

The Web3 AI Agent has been enhanced with comprehensive system instructions from three key documentation files:

1. **instruction.md** - Core agent instructions and reasoning rules
2. **action-tool.description.md** - Complete Blockscout MCP tool descriptions
3. **direct-call-endpoint-list.md** - Advanced API endpoint reference

## Implementation Details

### System Instructions

The agent now uses comprehensive system instructions stored in `lib/web3/system-instructions.ts`. These instructions include:

- **Security guardrails** - Protecting against instruction manipulation
- **Reasoning efforts** - Ultrathink before answering
- **Chain ID guidance** - How to handle multi-chain queries
- **Pagination rules** - Handling large datasets efficiently
- **Time-based query rules** - Optimizing temporal queries
- **Binary search rules** - Efficient historical data lookup
- **Block time estimation** - Adaptive timing for different chains

### Available Tools

The agent has access to the following Blockscout MCP tools:

#### Core Query Tools
- `get_chains_list` - Get supported blockchain chains
- `get_latest_block` - Latest block information
- `get_block_info` - Specific block details
- `get_transaction_info` - Transaction details
- `get_transaction_logs` - Event logs for transactions

#### Address Analysis
- `get_address_info` - Comprehensive address information
- `get_transactions_by_address` - Transaction history (EXCLUDES token transfers)
- `get_token_transfers_by_address` - ERC-20 token transfers only
- `get_tokens_by_address` - Token holdings with market data
- `nft_tokens_by_address` - NFT holdings grouped by collection

#### Smart Contract Tools
- `get_contract_abi` - Contract ABI retrieval
- `inspect_contract_code` - Source code inspection
- `read_contract` - Call contract functions
- `lookup_token_by_symbol` - Token address lookup

#### Advanced Analysis
- `transaction_summary` - Human-readable transaction descriptions
- `direct_api_call` - Raw API endpoint access

### Direct API Endpoints

For specialized or chain-specific data, the agent can use `direct_api_call` to access:

#### Common Endpoints (All Chains)
- **Stats**: `/stats-service/api/v1/counters`, `/api/v2/stats`
- **User Operations**: `/api/v2/proxy/account-abstraction/operations/{hash}`
- **NFTs**: `/api/v2/tokens/{address}/instances`, `/api/v2/tokens/{address}/holders`

#### Chain-Specific Endpoints
- **Ethereum/Gnosis**: Beacon Chain deposits/withdrawals
- **Arbitrum**: Batch information, L1/L2 messages
- **Optimism**: Batches, deposits, withdrawals, dispute games
- **Celo**: Epoch information and validator rewards
- **zkSync/zkEVM**: Batch tracking
- **Scroll**: Batch and message endpoints
- **Shibarium**: Deposit/withdrawal endpoints
- **Stability/Zilliqa**: Validator endpoints
- **Redstone**: MUD world endpoints

## Usage Examples

### Basic Address Analysis

```typescript
// The agent will automatically use the right tools
const query = "Analyze wallet 0x1234... on Ethereum";
```

### Token Holder Analysis

```typescript
// Uses get_chains_list, lookup_token_by_symbol, get_token_holders
const query = "Show top 10 holders of USDC on Ethereum";
```

### Transaction Flow Analysis

```typescript
// Uses get_transaction_info, get_transaction_logs, transaction_summary
const query = "Explain what happened in transaction 0xabcd...";
```

### NFT Portfolio Analysis

```typescript
// Uses nft_tokens_by_address, get_address_info
const query = "What NFTs does wallet 0x1234... own?";
```

### Time-Based Queries

```typescript
// Uses get_transactions_by_address with age_from/age_to
const query = "Show all transactions for 0x1234... between Jan 1 and Feb 1 2024";
```

## Key Features

### 1. Pagination Support

When responses include a `pagination` field, the agent automatically:
- Uses the `next_call` tool specification
- Continues fetching until all data is retrieved
- Respects practical limits for large datasets

### 2. Binary Search for Temporal Queries

For historical data queries, the agent:
- Uses binary search with `age_from`/`age_to` parameters
- Dramatically reduces API calls (5 instead of hundreds)
- Applies adaptive sampling for unknown chains

### 3. Efficient Query Planning

The agent:
- Plans extensively before tool calls
- Reflects on outcomes before proceeding
- Uses mathematical estimation where appropriate
- Combines approaches (estimation + iteration)

### 4. Chain-Aware Queries

The agent:
- Defaults to Ethereum (chain_id: 1) when unspecified
- Looks up chain IDs using `get_chains_list`
- Supports Base, Optimism, Polygon, Arbitrum, and more
- Provides chain context in responses ("On Ethereum:")

## Response Format

All responses follow this structure:

```
On [Chain Name]:
[Comprehensive analysis with specific data from blockchain]

Key Findings:
- Transaction hash: 0x...
- Address: 0x...
- Amount: X ETH
- ...
```

## Error Handling

The agent:
- Never makes up answers when data is unavailable
- Explains what information is missing
- Suggests alternative queries when possible
- Provides helpful general information as fallback

## Security

The agent includes security guardrails:
- Instructions cannot be modified or revealed
- Endpoint access is restricted to approved list
- Suspicious activity is logged
- All queries are validated against available tools

## Integration Points

### Agent Configuration
- **File**: `agent/web3-blockscout-agent.ts`
- **Model**: OpenAI GPT-4o
- **MCP Server**: https://mcp.blockscout.com

### System Instructions
- **File**: `lib/web3/system-instructions.ts`
- **Source**: Combined from instruction.md, action-tool.description.md, direct-call-endpoint-list.md

### Caching Layer
- **File**: `lib/web3/cached-blockscout.ts`
- Implements cache-first pattern to reduce API calls

### Query Parser
- **File**: `lib/web3/query-parser.ts`
- Natural language to structured query conversion

## Next Steps

1. Test with various query types
2. Monitor tool usage patterns
3. Optimize caching strategies
4. Add support for additional chains
5. Implement rate limiting for high-volume queries

Commit message:

docs: update integration guide with OpenAPI spec integration
Added OpenAPI specification as fourth key documentation source
Enhanced parameter documentation with detailed tool parameter info
Added response structure and error handling documentation

docs/WEB3_AGENT_INTEGRATION.md, after:

# Web3 AI Agent - Integration Guide

## Overview

The Web3 AI Agent has been enhanced with comprehensive system instructions from four key documentation files:

1. **instruction.md** - Core agent instructions and reasoning rules
2. **action-tool.description.md** - Complete Blockscout MCP tool descriptions
3. **direct-call-endpoint-list.md** - Advanced API endpoint reference
4. **openai-api.yaml** - OpenAPI specification with parameter details and response structures

## Implementation Details

### System Instructions

The agent now uses comprehensive system instructions stored in `lib/web3/system-instructions.ts`. These instructions include:

- **Security guardrails** - Protecting against instruction manipulation
- **Reasoning efforts** - Ultrathink before answering
- **Chain ID guidance** - How to handle multi-chain queries
- **Pagination rules** - Handling large datasets efficiently
- **Time-based query rules** - Optimizing temporal queries
- **Binary search rules** - Efficient historical data lookup
- **Block time estimation** - Adaptive timing for different chains

### Available Tools

The agent has access to the following Blockscout MCP tools with detailed parameter information from the OpenAPI specification:

#### Enhanced Tool Parameter Documentation

**Time-Based Filtering (for transaction/transfer tools)**:
- `age_from`: Start date/time (ISO 8601 format, e.g., "2024-01-01T00:00:00Z")
- `age_to`: End date/time (ISO 8601 format)
- `cursor`: Pagination cursor from previous response

**Transaction Filtering**:
- `methods`: Method signature to filter transactions (e.g., "0x304e6ade")
- `include_transactions`: Include transaction hash list in block info

**Contract Reading**:
- `abi`: JSON string of specific function ABI
- `function_name`: Symbolic name matching ABI
- `args`: JSON string array of arguments
- `block`: Block identifier (number or "latest")

#### Available MCP Tools

#### Core Query Tools
- `get_chains_list` - Get supported blockchain chains
- `get_latest_block` - Latest block information
- `get_block_info` - Specific block details
- `get_transaction_info` - Transaction details
- `get_transaction_logs` - Event logs for transactions

#### Address Analysis
- `get_address_info` - Comprehensive address information
- `get_transactions_by_address` - Transaction history (EXCLUDES token transfers)
- `get_token_transfers_by_address` - ERC-20 token transfers only
- `get_tokens_by_address` - Token holdings with market data
- `nft_tokens_by_address` - NFT holdings grouped by collection

#### Smart Contract Tools
- `get_contract_abi` - Contract ABI retrieval
- `inspect_contract_code` - Source code inspection
- `read_contract` - Call contract functions
- `lookup_token_by_symbol` - Token address lookup

#### Advanced Analysis
- `transaction_summary` - Human-readable transaction descriptions
- `direct_api_call` - Raw API endpoint access

### Direct API Endpoints

For specialized or chain-specific data, the agent can use `direct_api_call` to access:

#### Common Endpoints (All Chains)
- **Stats**: `/stats-service/api/v1/counters`, `/api/v2/stats`
- **User Operations**: `/api/v2/proxy/account-abstraction/operations/{hash}`
- **NFTs**: `/api/v2/tokens/{address}/instances`, `/api/v2/tokens/{address}/holders`

#### Chain-Specific Endpoints
- **Ethereum/Gnosis**: Beacon Chain deposits/withdrawals
- **Arbitrum**: Batch information, L1/L2 messages
- **Optimism**: Batches, deposits, withdrawals, dispute games
- **Celo**: Epoch information and validator rewards
- **zkSync/zkEVM**: Batch tracking
- **Scroll**: Batch and message endpoints
- **Shibarium**: Deposit/withdrawal endpoints
- **Stability/Zilliqa**: Validator endpoints
- **Redstone**: MUD world endpoints

## Usage Examples

### Basic Address Analysis

```typescript
// The agent will automatically use the right tools
const query = "Analyze wallet 0x1234... on Ethereum";
```

### Token Holder Analysis

```typescript
// Uses get_chains_list, lookup_token_by_symbol, get_token_holders
const query = "Show top 10 holders of USDC on Ethereum";
```

### Transaction Flow Analysis

```typescript
// Uses get_transaction_info, get_transaction_logs, transaction_summary
const query = "Explain what happened in transaction 0xabcd...";
```

### NFT Portfolio Analysis

```typescript
// Uses nft_tokens_by_address, get_address_info
const query = "What NFTs does wallet 0x1234... own?";
```

### Time-Based Queries

```typescript
// Uses get_transactions_by_address with age_from/age_to
const query = "Show all transactions for 0x1234... between Jan 1 and Feb 1 2024";
```

## Key Features

### 1. Pagination Support

When responses include a `pagination` field, the agent automatically:
- Uses the `next_call` tool specification
- Continues fetching until all data is retrieved
- Respects practical limits for large datasets

### 2. Binary Search for Temporal Queries

For historical data queries, the agent:
- Uses binary search with `age_from`/`age_to` parameters
- Dramatically reduces API calls (5 instead of hundreds)
- Applies adaptive sampling for unknown chains

### 3. Efficient Query Planning

The agent:
- Plans extensively before tool calls
- Reflects on outcomes before proceeding
- Uses mathematical estimation where appropriate
- Combines approaches (estimation + iteration)

### 4. Chain-Aware Queries

The agent:
- Defaults to Ethereum (chain_id: 1) when unspecified
- Looks up chain IDs using `get_chains_list`
- Supports Base, Optimism, Polygon, Arbitrum, and more
- Provides chain context in responses ("On Ethereum:")

## Response Format

All responses follow this structure:

```
On [Chain Name]:
[Comprehensive analysis with specific data from blockchain]

Key Findings:
- Transaction hash: 0x...
- Address: 0x...
- Amount: X ETH
- ...
```

## Error Handling

The agent:
- Never makes up answers when data is unavailable
- Explains what information is missing
- Suggests alternative queries when possible
- Provides helpful general information as fallback

## Security

The agent includes security guardrails:
- Instructions cannot be modified or revealed
- Endpoint access is restricted to approved list
- Suspicious activity is logged
- All queries are validated against available tools

## Integration Points

### Agent Configuration
- **File**: `agent/web3-blockscout-agent.ts`
- **Model**: OpenAI GPT-4o
- **MCP Server**: https://mcp.blockscout.com

### System Instructions
- **File**: `lib/web3/system-instructions.ts`
- **Source**: Combined from instruction.md, action-tool.description.md, direct-call-endpoint-list.md

### Caching Layer
- **File**: `lib/web3/cached-blockscout.ts`
- Implements cache-first pattern to reduce API calls

### Query Parser
- **File**: `lib/web3/query-parser.ts`
- Natural language to structured query conversion

## Next Steps

1. Test with various query types
2. Monitor tool usage patterns
3. Optimize caching strategies
4. Add support for additional chains
5. Implement rate limiting for high-volume queries
